

1. By definition, what does a Continuous Delivery pipeline consist of?
a. Backlog items
b. Artifacts
c. Stages
d. Tickets
e. Commitments
Answer: C

2. You need to execute a shell script (/usr/bin/prepare-env) just before a Linux agent is started. How do you achieve this?
a. Use the "Suffix Start Agent Command" configuration option on the agent configuration.
b. Use the "Prefix Start Agent Command" configuration option on the agent configuration.
c. Configure a .profile file containing a call to /usr/bin/prepare-env in the home directory of the OS user which runs the agent
process.
d. Add a shell step to each Job tied to this agent to execute the shell script.
Answer: B

3. Suppose you are asked to obtain the config.xml of a folder (myFolder) from a script or HTTP client using the Jenkins Remote
API. The folder exists at the root of a Jenkins master. Which URL pattern is correct for obtaining this configuration file?
a. root/job/myFolder/config.xml
b. root/folder/myFolder/config.xml
c. root/myFolder/config.xml
d. root/myFolder?param=config.xml
e. root/api/getConfig?source=myFolder
Answer: A

4. What architecture is recommended by the Jenkins Cookbook for a scalable Jenkins environment?
a. Distributed Builds Architecture
b. Central Master Architecture
c. Automatic Builds Architecture D. Manual Polling Architecture E. One-Shot Build Architecture
Answer: A

5. In a Cluster Operations Job, which THREE of the following steps can be applied to a Client Master only?
a. Install Jenkins
b. Upgrade Jenkins
c. Upgrade all plugins D. Install plugin
d. Uninstall Jenkins
Answer: B.C,D

6. A lot of things in jenkins can be automated or customized using groovy scripts. If a jenkins operator writes a jenkins 
   script, is it guaranteed that it will always run in the jenikins environment or does it need further approval ?
a. Yes, any groovy script written will always run in jenkins environment, provided user has build permissions on a pipeline.   
b. Script will be allowed to run, provided developer is using scriped pipeline methodology.
c. All groovy scripts will by default run in groovy sandbox, provided they are trusted or safe. Any untrusted script needs to 
   be approved explicitly by administrators using in-process script approval. 
d. Yes, it will be allowed only for authenticated users. Anonymous users cannot run groovy scripts. 
e. All groovy scripts need to be approved, no matter how simple/safe they are deemed to be. Without approval, nothing would be allowed. 
Answer: C

7. The new CTO of your company boosts that in his earlier company they used to follow the practice of maintaining code in such a way that 
   it could be put into production any time. This would enable them to deploy code as soon as somebody requests it. In devops, what is it 
   referred to as ? 
   a. Continuous Integration
   b. This is not possible at all
   c. Continuous deployment 
   d. Continuous delivery
   e. This is basic essence of devops and happens by default in every organization. There is no label to it as such.
   Answer: D
   
 8. You want to ensure that you are able to quickly distinguish between builds that are of high quality and builds that are not at par.
    This would enable you to push the builds into the next stage in your process (For ex Dev- > QA -> prod). What should you do? 
    a. Manually track all builds. Keep a tracker to identify high quality builds. 
    b. Enable email notificaion for failed builds. If a build fails, developer will know that the build is not of high quality 
    c. Use build promotion plugin. Put in a place a criteria / process to identify good builds and subsequently promote them. 
    d. This default feature of jenkins. You do not need to do anything extra to enable this. 
    Answer: C
    
  9. Your company started with jenkins for a single, small project and now wants to use for 100s of medium to big size projects. 
     As of now you only have 1 server running jenkins. What can you do achieve this high scale. 
     a. Add  more jenkins masters to the set up. Enable load balancing. Each master will consume a portion of the input load. 
     b. Enable jenkins system configuration 'HA'. As soon as you do this, jenkins will automatically scale up/down as per the requirement.
     c. There is no way to do this in jenkins. Only option is to scale up jenkins VM meaning add more CPU/RAM to it. 
     d. Add as many agent/slave nodes as needed. Make sure there are no builds running in jenkins master. Scale up jenkins master if needed,
        but first scale out jenkins slaves. 
     e. Create separate jenkins cluster and use cloudbees jenkins operation center to manage them.  
     Answer: d
     
  10. Your CTO has instructed you to find a easy and simple solution to back up all jenkins instances in your environment. It needs to be cost effective.
      but the main focus is to easily implement it. 
      
      a. Simply back up JENKINS_HOME directory. It has enough info to restore jenkins to a new compute instance. 
      b. There is no simple way as such. Only way is to take the disk / data snapshot of the VM. 
      c. Simply copy/backup config.xml file, rest is redundant and is downloaded from jenkins cloud master set up, at boot up. 
      d. Enable jenkins replication. This feature of jenkins using which youncan very easily replicate the data and config from one 
         jenkins master to another. 
      Answer: 
         
  11. Why should you not run builds in jenkins master 
      a. Running buiklds in jenkins master is costlier than running in slave nodes, as master should always use SSD disks, while slaves us HDD disks.
      b. Due to how jenkins is architectured, you must have atleast 1 executor in the master node. Otherwise, your application  will not in jenkins slave also. 
      c. This is a complete incorrect statement. Master slave mode in jenkins was created to ensure that builds run on master node and slave stores the artifacts.
      d. Running jobs in master can be security concern, as your jobs have access to JENKINS_HOME directory, effectively enabling them to delete/modify/create update 
         jenkins which is not a good situation to be in. 
      Answer: d   
         
  12. You have a distributed build team, with developers across the spectrum working on variety of topics. This sometimes resulting in confusion as to what artifact output
      from one build pipeline is being used / leveraged in the subsequent build/test/release pipeline. What can be used to ensure that you can keep a track of what version 
      of a file / artifact  is being used in a build / pipeline job? 
      a. Build promotion can be used to track artifact usage across builds. 
      b. You need to store artifacts in github and version control them to understand their usage patterns and come up with conclusions. 
      c. This is not possible in jenkins, you need to write custom groovy extesnions for that. 
      d. You need to fingerprint the artifacts. Then you can very easliy understand what version of artifact is being leveraged in what build number and so
         effectively allowing dependency tracking in your system .
      Answer: d   
         
  13. In a distributed build architecture for jenkins, what is the best practice regarding Agent / slave jenkins nodes ? 
  
      a. There is a hard upper limit of 5 agent nodes per jenkins master node. 
      b. You should treat jenkins slave nodes as a fungible / replaceable in the sense that they should not store important configuration information that 
         cannot be recreated within the build process. 
      c. You should not mix agents of different OS types like windows / linux. It is better to use only one type of agents to keep control of your system. 
      d. Always use cloud agents. Do not us on-prem agents as they are not that secure / cost effective. 
      Answer: b
      
   14. If you have a parameterised job which takes 2-3 string parameters as input, how can i leverage those parameters within my job/pipeline code meaning 
       how do i reference them ? 
       a. Every string parameter is exposed as an environment variable of the same name, which you can use effectively to reference them. 
       b. You need to install jenkins string variable plugin to be able to use string parameters, other wise it won't work. 
       c. All variables you declare can be referenced using a hashmap of values, with key name set to variable name. 
       d. Actually, string parameters are not supported directly, you need to encode them into files  and then pass them as file parameters. 
       Answer: a
       
   15. I have a jenkins pipeline that needs a code snippet to run in both windows and linux environment for the build to succeed. How can i accomodate such 
       a thing in jenkins 
       a. You need to have 2 separate jenkins master installations, one for windows and one for linux. then you need to split the pipeline to run different 
          steps in different masters. 
       b. You can have single master but different slave nodes one for windows and one for linux but still need to split the pipeline into 2 separate pipelines,
          make one run for windows and other for linux. 
       c. You can have a single jenkins master but different slave nodes one for windows and one for linux . You dont need to split the pipeline into 2 separate 
          pipelines , you can simply specify which stage runs on which agent and so on.
       d. The above is not possible in jenkins. You need to install OSConcurrency plugin to allow different agent VM's to support different OS variants. 
       Answer: c
       
   16. You have a jenkins distributed build environment set up where the agent VM's are in on-prem (behind the firewall) , while the master is in cloud meaning master 
       cannot initiate connection to the agents. How to set up master agent communication in such use cases? 
       
       a. There is no option as such, for distributed builds the master must be able to initiate communication to agents, there is no other way. 
       b. You can initiate agent to master communcation via JNLP. It is not always mandatory for master to initiate communication. 
       c. The only way is to set up jenkins HA cluster with all VM's acting like both master and slave. 
       d. You have enable all flow initally, then once the master communicates to the agent for the first time, then afterwards you can close up the F/W again 
          and the flow will still work , once the initial set up is done. 
       Answer: b   
          
   17. Your security team has verified  your jenkins set up and are adamant that you need to set up audit logging to ensure that you can track what user is doing 
        what. what should be your response to the security team. 
        
        a. Ensure them that is available by default, of the box in jenkins. Share them the audit log 
        b. Mention that this is not possible in jenkins.  Only way is to control security via matrix based security but cannot pin point who did what. 
        c. Ensure them that auditing per user action is not needed as JENKINS_HOME has been completely locked down and only administrators can access it. 
        d. Install jenkins audit trail plugin. set up a logger sink to output all audit logs to either a file /console/syslog...and finally share the audit logs 
           to audit team for future audits. 
        Answer: d   
           
    18. A jenkins executor is one of the basic building blocks which allow a build to run on a node/agent. Think of jenkins executor as a single process ID that 
        jenkins executes on your machine to run a build. What is the default no of executors available in jenkins master 
        
        a. Default no of executors is 2. You can always change this laster on. 
        b. This is dependent on setting you initially use during jenkins installation what ever value you put there is the default executor count. 
        c. Executors are not set at VM/Master/Agent level. Rather they are set at pipeline level, so you have to specify the no of executors when you create a pipeline. 
        d. Default no of executors is 5 and you cannot change later on. 
        Answer: a
           
    19. In a multi branch pieline, where are different pipeline build steps located? 
        a. In the job configuration page. 
        b. In the jenkins file located in repo branches. 
        c. In JENKINS_HOME/JOB/JOB_NAME/job_config.xml file
        d. You need to define the exact path in the repo where the jenkinsfile is located using the env variable $JOB_PATH
        Answer: 
        
     20. I have created a free style job that has few build steps. For ex one step builds a dot net code into a dll with all dependencies and packages 
         into an artifact. In the build process, where exactly is this step executed for a distributed build architecture. 
         a. Build steps are always executed in the master jenkins node.
         b. The location should be inputted as an input parameter in the job and based on that appropriate build location is determined. 
         c. In JENKINS_HOME in the agent/slave node. 
         d. Build steps are run as specified in the job, in the project workspace on executing build agent / node. Master jenkins node is not 
            leveraged for any build activity. 
         Answer: d   
            
      21. What is advantage of using jenkins new pipeline mode instead of old free style  job pattern ?
          a. Free style jobs have been deprecated since jenkins 2.1.1, so oving forward you have use only pipeline syntax. 
          b. You can express your pipeline steps using code and save them in SCM which enables tracking,  version control and easy roll back. 
          c. Free style jobs are slower and new pipeline syntax is faster. 
          d. Freestyle jobs are still preferred way. Pipelines are only suitable for a few limited , niche use cases. 
          Answer: b
          
       22. Which of the following about jenkins installation is correct? 
           a. Jenkins does not support installation using containerisation platforms like docker 
           b. Jenkins master can only be run on windoes and not in unix 
           c. Jenkins installation has no dependency on java , the only pre-req id python
           d. Jenkins can be installed in a stand alone mode, where jenkins leverages built in servlet container/ application server jetty. 
           Answer: d 
           
       23. You need to perform a basic testing  of you application functionality before releasing it to your dedciated test teams for exhaustive testing.
           whats is this called ? 
           a. Unit testing 
           b. Smoke testing 
           c. Pyramid testing
           d. Integration testing 
           e. User acceptance testing
           Answer: b
           
        24. A colleague had initiated jenkins installation and left in between. You have now been handed over the mantle to finish the set up. You can see that 
            the installation is finished, but you have no idea how to login. Where can you find the password details? 
            a. Jenkins password need to be inputted during installation and cannot be recovered after that.
            b. Jenkins default password is P@ssword. 
            c. Password is usually stored in /var/lib/jenkins/home/secrets/initialAdminPassword 
            d. Jenkins does not need password for the initial set up. It uses SSH keypair for initial authentication and is password less as such. 
            Answer: c
            
        25.  Your build pipline produces build artifacts like dlls/jars. How can you preserve these files for future reference / to download later.
             a. Enable artifact repository plugin. 
             b. Enable artifact fingerprint option. 
             c. Add a post build step to archive artifacts. Archived files will be accessible from jenkins webpage. 
             d. Use promoted builds plugin.
             Answer: c
             
         26. A new developer has joined your team. This team has a folder o your jenkins server that uses project based matrix security. You are told that 
             the new employee cannot see the folder once they have logged in. Global permissions are set to allow authenticated users read access at both 
             the overall context and the job context, what is the most likely cause. 
             
             a. The user needs to be explicitly added to the authenticated users group. 
             b. The folder permissions need to be explicitly configured to allow authenticated user access. 
             c. The folder permission is configured to disable global inheritance and the user does not have explicit read access to the concerned folder. 
             d. The global user setiings need to be modified to allow anyone access to anything.   
             Answer: c

          27. What's not true about a build executor?
              Choose the correct answer:
              A. You can run many of them in parallel.
              B. They can run on the master.
              C. The default number of executors on a node is 4.
              D. It runs projects dictated by Jenkins.
              Answer: C
              Explanation:
              The default number of executors on a node is 2.
              
         28.  Which menu option do you select to add a pipeline or other project?
              Choose the correct answer
              A. Manage Jenkins
              B. My Views
              C. New Item
              D. Credentials
              Answer: C
              Explanation:
              Selecting "New Item" from the dashboard will take you to menu where you can add a new project.

          29. You have taken over a build environment where Jenkins is responsible for scanning for changes
              made in a Git repository every hour and then applying that build to a few dozen web servers. As
              part of that job, Jenkins also is responsible for completing some scripted performance-based 
              tests and, depending on the defined results, marking the build as complete and notifying the
              team OR rolling back the build, notifying the team, and marking it as failed. You notice that the
              build itself is now taking longer than an hour to complete, which is affecting the push of new
              changes on occasion. What changes could you make to your Jenkins environment to alleviate
              the amount of time it takes to complete and test a build so that the hourly schedule is more
              likely to be kept?
              Choose the correct answer: 
              A. Create additional Jenkins Masters and deploy the job to each one. Schedule the job staggered
              by 30 minutes on each one so that the additional master servers won’t be busy if the first job
              runs long.
              B. Add one or more slave nodes to the environment, this will allow us to deploy code to multiple
                end points at one time. Break up the single job into multiple jobs so that each one can be
                triggered by the successful completion of the previous job to eliminate scheduling problems on
                beginning a new build in the event subsequent steps run longer than the intended time period.
              C. Remove the performance testing from the build. Schedule performance testing as a separate
                 job 30 minutes after the build runs and trigger a rollback if the performance testing fails at this point. 
              D. None of these
              Answer: B
              Explanation:
              As the load of your Jenkins setup expands, you can distribute the burden by adding one or more
              slave nodes.
              
          30. Which answer best describes continuous delivery?
              Choose the correct answer:
             A. A software development discipline where software is built so that it can be released to
                production at any time.
             B. A software development practice where contributors are integrating their work very
                frequently.
             C. Building in 60 minutes or less.
             D. A software development discipline where software is released continuously as part of an 
                automated pipeline.
             Answer: A
             Explanation:
             Continuous delivery is an extension of continuous integration. It means that the software CAN
             be released at any time.
             
          31. Over the last six months, a large number of projects have been added to Jenkins. You have been
              asked by your manager to do some cleanup by creating some list views. How would you go about
              creating these list views?
              Choose the correct answer:
              A. Explicitly set projects to view
              B. Using a regular expression pattern
              C. Explicitly set recursively in sub-folders
              D. All of these
              Answer: D
              Explanation:
              You can add projects to list views with all of these options.
              
         32. You've just become the administrator for the Jenkins server, and the feedback you've received
             from the users is they're having trouble locating their jobs to run them. You've determined that
             folders are the most logical solution and wish to move the jobs into the new folders you've
             created. How would you accomplish this?
             Choose the correct answer:
             A. Click existing item; in the item view page, select "move" on the left panel; select target folder.
             B. Hover and click arrow on existing item, choose "move", select target folder.
             C. For new items, click folder; in the folder view, select new item; it will automatically be added to
                that folder. 
             D. All of these
             Answer: D
             Explanation:
             All of these options are ways to add projects to folders.
             
         33. You need to grant permissions, via matrix-based security, to run a specific command in a
             Jenkins pipeline. The project parameters will not allow you to create a specific user to run this
             task, and you have no relevant groups. Which of the following is an option?
             Choose the correct answer:
             A. Create a group, add an existing user to the task, and grant permissions to that group
             B. Set permissions in Jenkins to allow anonymous users to run the command
             C. Change the workflow to require an existing user to run the task, and assign permissions to
                that user.
             D. Either creating a group or reassigning the user will work.
             Answer: B
             Explanation:
             You can set permissions for anonymous users with matrix-based security. Since this requires
             the least impact on existing workflows, it's the best solution.
             
          34. What's the SDLC?
              Choose the correct answer:   
              A. Super Digital Life Chain
              B. Sloan Digital Legal Conference
              C. Software Development Life Cycle
              D. None of these
              Answer: C 
              Explanation:
              The SDLC is contained in CI/CD concepts.
              
         35. You are working on a project that will build a Docker image. When the job completes it needs to
             trigger a build to deploy a container to your development environment for integration testing.
             How would you go about triggering the second build?
             Choose the correct answer:
            A. Both "Triggered by another project" and the "Parameterized Trigger Plugin"
            B. In the downstream build, you can select "Triggered by another project"
            C. You could use the Parameterized Trigger Plugin to trigger from an upstream project.
            D. Use the run() function passing the downstream projects name from within an upstream
               project build step.
           Answer: A
           Explanation:
           Both are options for triggering upstream and downstream projects.    
           
         36. Which are Source Code Management tools: 
             Choose 3 answers

           A.Java
           B. Perforce
           C. Subversion
           D. Git
           E. Maven  
           Correct Answer: B, C, D
           
         37. Why Is the performance of a Jenkins master Improved by using a distributed builds architecture?

            A. Because executors cannot be allocated on the master.
            B. Because executors offloaded onto build nodes are not performant.
            C. Because it prevents the CPU being overloaded during parallel polls.
            D. Because it prevents builds from overloading a master's CPU/memory.
            E. Because builds cannot be run In parallel on a master.
            Correct Answer: D
            
         38. Where do you find alerts about Jenkins security issues? Choose 3 answers

             A. Beekeeper Upgrade Assistant if you are running CloudBees Jenkins Distribution or CloudBees Core.
             B. An email message that is automatically sent to all users who have registered with the mailing list at Jenklnssd-advisories@googlegroups.com.
             C. A banner displayed in the upper right section of the master's home page.
             D. An email message sent to all users who are listed in the 'Send security notifications'' field of the 'Extended E-mail Notification' configuration.
             E. Jenkins logs.  
             Correct Answer: C, D, E
             
         39. Which of the following are true about the "post" section of a Declarative Pipeline that defines additional steps that run at the end of either a pipeline
             stage or the pipeline itself? Choose 3 answers    
             A. The 'post' section can be used to stash files, archive artifacts, and send notifications.
             B. The 'post' section includes conditional blocks (such as 'always', 'success', or 'failure').
             C. It any step specified in the 'post' section fails, the pipeline run is marked as 'unsuccessful'.
             D. The Blue Ocean editor does not display the 'post' section blocks although they can be viewed and modified in the Blue Ocean code editor.
             E. The conditional blocks are executed in the order they are coded in the Pipeline.
             Correct Answer: B, C, E
             
          40. 
          
         You are using GitHub repository scanning (in a project of type "GitHub Organization") with the Pipeline
         jenkinsfile Project Recognizer. In this case, which repositories under the organization will have
         Multibranch projects automatically created for them?
         A. only repositories that contain a Jenkinsfile in all their branches
         B. only repositories that contain a Jenkinsfile in at least one branch
         C. all repositories that contain a Jenkinsfile in at least one branch or pull request
         D. all repositories
         Answer: A
        
         41. How can you configure a Declarative Pipeline to record the fingerprint of an artifact?
         A. CaII the fingerprintArtifact() step immediately after the archiveArtifacts( ) step.
         B. Enable the Declarative Pipeline 'enableFingerprints' 'option' .
         C. Set the Fingerprint Artifacts global configuration option.
         D. Set the "fingerprint: true" argument for the archiveArtifactsQ step.
         E. No action is required; Declarative Pipelines automatically record a fingerprint for each artifact.
         Answer: D
         
         42. Which are commonly referenced as key points of CI?
         Choose 3 answers
         A. Automated deployment to the production environment.
         B. Collaboration among Dev, QA and Ops.
         C. Automated tests after each commit
         D. Automated builds after each commit.
         E. Frequent commits to source code repository.
         Answer: C, D, E
         

         43. A unit test_________.
         A. tests an Individual unit a component
         B. verifies cross-functionalities
         C. verifies that the complete software matches the specifications it was written to fulfill
         D. is written when an Integration or multi-environment bog is fixed
         Answer: A
         
         44. Which of the following is true about resuming a Declarative Pipeline?
         A. Declarative Pipelines cab be restarted after a Jenkins failure but not after a transient outage (such as a
         network failure or disk space exhaustion).
         B. Declarative Pipelines can be resumed only after a transient outage (such as a network failure or disk
         space exhaustion).
         C. All Declarative Pipelines are restartable by default, with the same inputs (commit to build,
         parameters, etc) as the original run. Any data that was built In the original run Is available only If the
         preserveStashes() option Is specified In the Jenkinsfile
         D. Declarative Pipelines that use Docker containers can not be resumed because the docker APIs that
         Jenkins calls to create the container are not serialized
         E. A Declarative Pipeline can be restarted only If the preserveStashes() option Is set In the pipeline.
         Answer: C   
   
           
            
            
           
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
         
     
   
   
